# Batik-Pattern-Image-Classification
An image classification project to classify Batik image based on its pattern. This project trained various models to classify the most popular Batik patterns, namely Kawung, Parang, Truntum, Mega Mendung, and combined patterns.

## A. Project Background
Becoming a maritime nation consisting of 17,000 islands and enjoyed by 272,229,372 inhabitants, a surprise when Indonesia is known as a country with extraordinary ethnic, religious, linguistic and cultural diversity. This diversity, especially culture, is a noble thing for society Indonesia because it can manifest in diversity—Bhinneka Tunggal Ika—to become a value that is felt real in socialize. Even so, there are not many Indonesian people who appreciate and recognize each existing culture. Batik, as one of the cultural products from the island of Java, also have various patterns which later developed into an icon that is not limited only to the island of Java. It is a relatively difficult thing to know (and memorize) every types of batik because of various varieties that it has, so that it becomes a a challenge in itself in the conservation of Indonesian culture. Identification of batik patterns becomes an interesting problem, which goes hand in hand the development of civilization today, technology can be a solution the problem. Machine learning (ML) is one of the breakthroughs today's technology, with various uses and benefits. One of the branch of Machine Learning classification is, where the algorithm reads input in the form of existing data that is classified into several groups for later predict in the new set of input data should be. In this project, we will be explore various methods using standard model architecture such as Inception and also using self-built CNN model architecture to find the best method to carry out the task.

## B. Project Description
For training data, we scraped online images of each individual pattern. After that, data preparation (preprocessing) for training data is carried out, which prepared into two different training datasets. Training data training_files_A is prepared only by renaming and regrouping treatment, while training_files_B is prepared through various preprocessing treatments, including zooming, resizing, shearing, and cropping. After the training data is ready, then the batik pattern classification is carried out. We used two methods, namely the existing InceptionV3 standard model, and also the self-built CNN architecture. Image detection using the method the standard will compare the results of the classification with the training data training_files_A and with training_files_B, while for detection images using the development method will compare the results of training_files_B classification by the development method on the results obtained standard method is shown.

## C. Results
In the classification experiment using Inceptionv3 model, it was found that testing test data on programs trained using training_files_A produces an accuracy of 99%. Then, when running the test on program trained using training_files_B, performance is experiencing decreased to 94%. The same pattern also occurs in the development model which using a self-built CNN model architecture. This phenomenon is likely due to the augmentation process the data carried out causes the variability of the data to be much greater thus requiring a higher level of model complexity to training_files_B.

